Project Implementation/Documentation.md, before:

# <img src="https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:1400/1*8bUjUiCWk0VhS8-lgAj0Og.png" width="4%" height="4%"> Consumer Goods: Ad-Hoc Analysis Phase-wise Implementation

---

## Phases of Implementation
- [1. Data Import](#1-data-import)
- [2. Data Cleaning](#2-data-cleaning)
- [3. Database Design](#3-database-design)
- [4. Calculate Fiscal Year & Fiscal Quarter using Functions](#4-calculate-fiscal-year--fiscal-quarter-using-functions)
  - [Fiscal Year](#fiscal-year)
  - [Fiscal Quarter](#fiscal-quarter)
- [5. Finance Analytics](#5-finance-analytics)
  - [5.1 Gross Sales Report: Croma FY 2021 Monthly Product Transactions](#51-gross-sales-report-croma-fy-2021-monthly-product-transactions)
  - [5.2 Gross Sales Report: Croma Monthly Gross Sales](#52-gross-sales-report-croma-monthly-gross-sales)
  - [5.3 Gross Sales Report: Croma Yearly Gross Sales](#53-gross-sales-report-croma-yearly-gross-sales)
  - [5.4 Stored Procedure: Monthly Gross Sales Report](#54-stored-procedure-monthly-gross-sales-report)
  - [5.5 Stored Procedure: Market Badge](#55-stored-procedure-market-badge)

---

## 1. Data Import
Importing Data from Database:

- AtliQ Hardware Database: atliq-db.sql
- Server Tab → Data Import → Import from Self-contained File → Select Database file from directory → Import Progress Tab → Start Import → Once complete, Refresh Schema List
- Database Schema Name: gdb0041     |     Total Data: Around 2,000,000 records
- Set the gdb0041 as the default database schema for all queries by double clicking or right click & set default schema

---

## 2. Data Cleaning
The following steps were taken to clean the data:

- **Step 1:** Imported DB and loaded the data for 9 tables: dim_customer, dim_product, fact_forecast_monthly, fact_freight_cost, fact_gross_price, fact_manufacturing_cost, fact_post_invoice_deductions, fact_pre_invoice_deductions & fact_sales_monthly.

- **Step 2:** Reviewed size of the dataset:
```sql
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM dim_customer; -- 209 records
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM dim_product; -- 397 records
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM fact_forecast_monthly; -- 1885941 records
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM fact_freight_cost; -- 135 records
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM fact_gross_price; -- 1182 records
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM fact_manufacturing_cost; -- 1182 records
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM fact_post_invoice_deductions; -- 2063076 records
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM fact_pre_invoice_deductions; -- 1045 records
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM fact_sales_monthly; -- 1425706 records
```

- **Step 3:** Reviewed Column datatypes. Used the tool icon in table flash queries to review datatypes. SQL query below can also be used to query datatypes in result grid. Edit & Repeat for all 9 tables.
```sql
SELECT COLUMN_NAME, DATA_TYPE
FROM INFORMATION_SCHEMA.COLUMNS
WHERE TABLE_NAME = 'dim_customer'; -- change table name as required
```

- **Step 4:** Dropped redundant columns (index_id from fact_sales_monthly & fact_forecast_monthly) that are not useful for our analysis.
```sql
ALTER TABLE fact_sales_monthly DROP COLUMN index_id;
ALTER TABLE fact_forecast_monthly DROP COLUMN index_id;
```

- **Step 5:** Searched for NULL values by counting the number of rows with Null values, Zeros or Wrong values. No such values were found in any of the 9 tables.
```sql
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM dim_customer WHERE customer_code IS NULL OR customer_code = 0 OR customer IS NULL OR platform IS NULL OR channel IS NULL OR market IS NULL OR sub_zone IS NULL OR region IS NULL;
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM dim_product WHERE product_code IS NULL OR division IS NULL OR segment IS NULL OR category IS NULL OR product IS NULL OR variant IS NULL;
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM fact_forecast_monthly WHERE date IS NULL OR fiscal_year IS NULL OR product_code IS NULL OR customer_code IS NULL OR forecast_quantity IS NULL;
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM fact_freight_cost WHERE market IS NULL OR fiscal_year IS NULL OR freight_pct IS NULL OR freight_pct = 0 OR other_cost_pct IS NULL OR other_cost_pct = 0;
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM fact_gross_price WHERE product_code IS NULL OR fiscal_year IS NULL OR gross_price IS NULL OR gross_price = 0;
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM fact_manufacturing_cost WHERE product_code IS NULL OR cost_year IS NULL OR manufacturing_cost IS NULL OR manufacturing_cost = 0;
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM fact_post_invoice_deductions WHERE customer_code IS NULL OR customer_code = 0 OR product_code IS NULL OR date IS NULL OR discounts_pct IS NULL OR other_deductions_pct IS NULL;
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM fact_pre_invoice_deductions WHERE customer_code IS NULL OR customer_code = 0 OR fiscal_year IS NULL OR pre_invoice_discount_pct IS NULL;
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM fact_sales_monthly WHERE date IS NULL OR product_code IS NULL OR customer_code IS NULL OR customer_code = 0 OR sold_quantity IS NULL;
```

- **Step 6:** Inspected dimension tables - dim_customer & dim_product tables for duplicate values based on Unique Primary Key. No duplicates were found.
```sql
SELECT customer_code, COUNT(customer_code) as duplicate_count
FROM dim_customer
GROUP BY customer_code
HAVING COUNT(customer_code) > 1 ;

SELECT product_code, COUNT(product_code) as duplicate_count
FROM dim_product
GROUP BY product_code
HAVING COUNT(product_code) > 1 ;
```

- **Step 7:** Trimmed the String datatype categorical columns to remove any existing visible/invisible white, leading and trailing spaces.
```sql
UPDATE dim_customer SET platform = TRIM(platform);
UPDATE dim_customer SET channel = TRIM(channel);
UPDATE dim_customer SET market = TRIM(market);
UPDATE dim_customer SET sub_zone = TRIM(sub_zone);
UPDATE dim_customer SET region = TRIM(region);

UPDATE dim_product SET division = TRIM(division);
UPDATE dim_product SET segment = TRIM(segment);
UPDATE dim_product SET category = TRIM(category);
UPDATE dim_product SET variant = TRIM(variant);
```

---

## 3. Database Design
...To be added...

---

## 4. Calculate Fiscal Year & Fiscal Quarter using Functions
### Fiscal Year:

The Fiscal Year cycle for AtliQ Hardware spans from September through August. I only have calendar date data in all of my columns, so I’ll need to calculate the FY. In this case I’ll have to add 4 months to the Calendar Date and the Year part of the new date will tell me the Fiscal year. E.g. Sep 2021 + 4 months = Jan 2022 → FY 22. I’ll use the DATE_ADD function for this use case.

Logic: Add 4 Months and extract Year component → SQL Code: FY = YEAR(DATE_ADD(date, INTERVAL 4 MONTH))

Now instead of repeating this code everywhere and making my queries unnecessarily longer, I can setup a custom User-defined SQL function to automate this calculation.

DB gdb0041 → Functions → Create Function:

```sql
CREATE FUNCTION `get_fiscal_year` (
	calendar_date DATE
)
RETURNS INTEGER
DETERMINISTIC
BEGIN
	DECLARE fiscal_year INT;
	SET fiscal_year = YEAR(DATE_ADD(calendar_date, INTERVAL 4 MONTH));
RETURN fiscal_year;
END
```

### Fiscal Quarter:

The Fiscal Quarter depends on the months. For AtliQ Fiscal Year spans from September through August, Quarter 1 will be September, October & November. Quarter 2 will be December, January & February. Quarter 3 will be March, April & May. Quarter 4 will be June, July & August.

Logic: If Month number: 9, 10 , 11 then Q1; 12, 1, 2 then Q2; 3, 4, 5 then Q3; 6, 7, 8 then Q4. → SQL Function used: MONTH(date)

DB gdb0041 → Functions → Create Function:

```sql
CREATE FUNCTION `get_fiscal_quarter`(
	calendar_date DATE
) RETURNS char(2) CHARSET utf8mb4
    DETERMINISTIC
BEGIN
	DECLARE m TINYINT;
    DECLARE fiscal_quarter CHAR(2);
    SET m = MONTH(calendar_date);
    CASE
		WHEN m IN (9, 10, 11) THEN SET fiscal_quarter = "Q1";
        WHEN m IN (12, 1, 2) THEN SET fiscal_quarter = "Q2";
        WHEN m IN (3, 4, 5) THEN SET fiscal_quarter = "Q3";
        ELSE SET fiscal_quarter = "Q4"; -- WHEN m IN (6, 7, 8)
    END CASE;
RETURN fiscal_quarter;
END
```

---

## 5. Finance Analytics
Finance Analytics involves generating reports that provide key Sales & Finance data for specific use cases usually automated through Stored Procedures.

### 5.1 Gross Sales Report: Croma FY 2021 Monthly Product Transactions
Task: Generate report of individual Product Sales (aggregated on a monthly basis at product code level) for Croma in India FY 2021.

```sql
-- Gross Sales Report: Croma FY 2021 Monthly Product Transactions
-- Generate report of individual product sales (aggregated on a monthly basis at product code level) for Croma in India FY 2021.
-- Display Fields: Month, Product Name, Variant, Sold Quantity, Gross Price per Item, Gross Price Total

SELECT fsm.date AS month, fsm.product_code, dp.product, dp.variant, fsm.sold_quantity, ROUND(fgp.gross_price, 2) AS gross_price, ROUND((fsm.sold_quantity * fgp.gross_price), 2) AS gross_sales
FROM fact_sales_monthly AS fsm
JOIN dim_product AS dp ON fsm.product_code = dp.product_code
JOIN fact_gross_price AS fgp ON fsm.product_code = fgp.product_code AND get_fiscal_year(fsm.date) = fgp.fiscal_year
WHERE customer_code = 90002002 AND get_fiscal_year(date) = 2021 -- Customer = Croma, FY =2021
ORDER BY month ASC;
```

### 5.2 Gross Sales Report: Croma Monthly Gross Sales
Task: Generate report of Monthly total Gross Sales amount for Croma India customer.

```sql
-- Gross Sales Report: Croma Monthly Gross Sales
-- Generate report of monthly total gross sales amount for Croma India customer.
-- Display Fields: Month, Total Gross Sales for Croma India

SELECT fsm.date AS month, ROUND(SUM(fsm.sold_quantity * fgp.gross_price), 2) AS monthly_gross_sales
FROM fact_sales_monthly AS fsm
JOIN fact_gross_price AS fgp ON fsm.product_code = fgp.product_code AND get_fiscal_year(fsm.date) = fgp.fiscal_year
WHERE customer_code = 90002002 -- customer = Croma
GROUP BY month
ORDER BY month ASC;
```

### 5.3 Gross Sales Report: Croma Yearly Gross Sales
Task: Generate report of Yearly total Gross Sales amount for Croma India customer.

```sql
-- Gross Sales Report: Croma Yearly Gross Sales
-- Generate report of yearly total gross sales amount for Croma India customer.
-- Display Fields: Fiscal Year, Total Gross Sales for Croma India

SELECT get_fiscal_year(fsm.date) as fiscal_year, ROUND(SUM(fsm.sold_quantity * fgp.gross_price), 2) AS yearly_gross_sales
FROM fact_sales_monthly AS fsm
JOIN fact_gross_price AS fgp ON fsm.product_code = fgp.product_code AND get_fiscal_year(fsm.date) = fgp.fiscal_year
WHERE customer_code = 90002002 -- customer = Croma
GROUP BY get_fiscal_year(fsm.date)
ORDER BY fiscal_year ASC;
```

### 5.4 Stored Procedure: Monthly Gross Sales Report
Task: Generate Monthly Gross Sales Report for any Customer using Stored Procedure.

```sql
-- in_customer_codes is the comma separated input for which the Monthly Gross Sales Report will be generated.

CREATE DEFINER=`root`@`localhost` PROCEDURE `get_monthly_gross_sales_for_customer`(
	in_customer_codes TEXT
)
BEGIN
	SELECT fsm.date AS month, ROUND(SUM(fsm.sold_quantity * fgp.gross_price), 2) AS monthly_gross_sales
	FROM fact_sales_monthly AS fsm
	JOIN fact_gross_price AS fgp ON fsm.product_code = fgp.product_code AND get_fiscal_year(fsm.date) = fgp.fiscal_year
	WHERE FIND_IN_SET(fsm.customer_code, in_customer_codes) > 0
	GROUP BY month;
END
```

### 5.5 Stored Procedure: Market Badge
Not all markets are equally valuable to AliQ. The significance of a market for AtliQ depends on the quantity sold. Identify the high significance markets by assigning a status parameter.

Task: Write a Stored Procedure that can retrieve Market Badge. If total sold quantity > 5 million that market is considered "Gold" else "Silver”.

```sql
-- My Simpler & Less Optimized Code:

CREATE DEFINER=`root`@`localhost` PROCEDURE `market_badge`(
	in_market VARCHAR(45),
	in_fiscal_year YEAR
)
BEGIN
	# Default market set to India
	IF in_market = "" THEN
		SET in_market="India";
	END IF;

	SELECT in_market, in_fiscal_year, SUM(fsm.sold_quantity) AS total_sold_quantity, IF(SUM(fsm.sold_quantity) > 5000000, "Gold", "Silver") AS market_badge
	FROM fact_sales_monthly AS fsm
	JOIN dim_customer AS dc ON fsm.customer_code = dc.customer_code
    WHERE get_fiscal_year(fsm.date) = in_fiscal_year AND dc.market = in_market;
END
```

```sql
-- Codebasics Complex & More Optimized Code:

CREATE DEFINER=`root`@`localhost` PROCEDURE `get_market_badge`(
	IN in_market VARCHAR(45),
	IN in_fiscal_year YEAR,
	OUT out_market_badge VARCHAR(45)
)
BEGIN
	DECLARE qty INT DEFAULT 0;
    
	# Default market set to India
	IF in_market = "" THEN
		SET in_market="India";
	END IF;
    
	SELECT SUM(fsm.sold_quantity) INTO qty 
  	FROM fact_sales_monthly AS fsm
	JOIN dim_customer AS dc ON fsm.customer_code = dc.customer_code
	WHERE GET_FISCAL_YEAR(fsm.date) = in_fiscal_year AND dc.market = in_market;
	
	# Determine Gold or Silver badge
	IF qty > 5000000 THEN SET out_market_badge = 'Gold';
	ELSE SET out_market_badge = 'Silver';
	END IF;
END
```

---

Commit message:

Updated Documentation.md - Query Optimization - 6.1 & 6.2

Project Implementation/Documentation.md, after:

# <img src="https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:1400/1*8bUjUiCWk0VhS8-lgAj0Og.png" width="4%" height="4%"> Consumer Goods: Ad-Hoc Analysis Phase-wise Implementation

---

## Phases of Implementation
- [1. Data Import](#1-data-import)
- [2. Data Cleaning](#2-data-cleaning)
- [3. Database Design](#3-database-design)
- [4. Calculate Fiscal Year & Fiscal Quarter using Functions](#4-calculate-fiscal-year--fiscal-quarter-using-functions)
  - [Fiscal Year](#fiscal-year)
  - [Fiscal Quarter](#fiscal-quarter)
- [5. Finance Analytics](#5-finance-analytics)
  - [5.1 Gross Sales Report: Croma FY 2021 Monthly Product Transactions](#51-gross-sales-report-croma-fy-2021-monthly-product-transactions)
  - [5.2 Gross Sales Report: Croma Monthly Gross Sales](#52-gross-sales-report-croma-monthly-gross-sales)
  - [5.3 Gross Sales Report: Croma Yearly Gross Sales](#53-gross-sales-report-croma-yearly-gross-sales)
  - [5.4 Stored Procedure: Monthly Gross Sales Report](#54-stored-procedure-monthly-gross-sales-report)
  - [5.5 Stored Procedure: Market Badge](#55-stored-procedure-market-badge)
- [6. Query Optimization](#6-query-optimization)
  - [6.1 Creating dim_date table](#61-creating-dim_date-table)
  - [6.2 Modifying fact_sales_monthly table to include fiscal_year](#62-modifying-fact_sales_monthly-table-to-include-fiscal_year)

---

## 1. Data Import
Importing Data from Database:

- AtliQ Hardware Database: atliq-db.sql
- Server Tab → Data Import → Import from Self-contained File → Select Database file from directory → Import Progress Tab → Start Import → Once complete, Refresh Schema List
- Database Schema Name: gdb0041     |     Total Data: Around 2,000,000 records
- Set the gdb0041 as the default database schema for all queries by double clicking or right click & set default schema

---

## 2. Data Cleaning
The following steps were taken to clean the data:

- **Step 1:** Imported DB and loaded the data for 9 tables: dim_customer, dim_product, fact_forecast_monthly, fact_freight_cost, fact_gross_price, fact_manufacturing_cost, fact_post_invoice_deductions, fact_pre_invoice_deductions & fact_sales_monthly.

- **Step 2:** Reviewed size of the dataset:
```sql
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM dim_customer; -- 209 records
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM dim_product; -- 397 records
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM fact_forecast_monthly; -- 1885941 records
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM fact_freight_cost; -- 135 records
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM fact_gross_price; -- 1182 records
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM fact_manufacturing_cost; -- 1182 records
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM fact_post_invoice_deductions; -- 2063076 records
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM fact_pre_invoice_deductions; -- 1045 records
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM fact_sales_monthly; -- 1425706 records
```

- **Step 3:** Reviewed Column datatypes. Used the tool icon in table flash queries to review datatypes. SQL query below can also be used to query datatypes in result grid. Edit & Repeat for all 9 tables.
```sql
SELECT COLUMN_NAME, DATA_TYPE
FROM INFORMATION_SCHEMA.COLUMNS
WHERE TABLE_NAME = 'dim_customer'; -- change table name as required
```

- **Step 4:** Dropped redundant columns (index_id from fact_sales_monthly & fact_forecast_monthly) that are not useful for our analysis.
```sql
ALTER TABLE fact_sales_monthly DROP COLUMN index_id;
ALTER TABLE fact_forecast_monthly DROP COLUMN index_id;
```

- **Step 5:** Searched for NULL values by counting the number of rows with Null values, Zeros or Wrong values. No such values were found in any of the 9 tables.
```sql
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM dim_customer WHERE customer_code IS NULL OR customer_code = 0 OR customer IS NULL OR platform IS NULL OR channel IS NULL OR market IS NULL OR sub_zone IS NULL OR region IS NULL;
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM dim_product WHERE product_code IS NULL OR division IS NULL OR segment IS NULL OR category IS NULL OR product IS NULL OR variant IS NULL;
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM fact_forecast_monthly WHERE date IS NULL OR fiscal_year IS NULL OR product_code IS NULL OR customer_code IS NULL OR forecast_quantity IS NULL;
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM fact_freight_cost WHERE market IS NULL OR fiscal_year IS NULL OR freight_pct IS NULL OR freight_pct = 0 OR other_cost_pct IS NULL OR other_cost_pct = 0;
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM fact_gross_price WHERE product_code IS NULL OR fiscal_year IS NULL OR gross_price IS NULL OR gross_price = 0;
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM fact_manufacturing_cost WHERE product_code IS NULL OR cost_year IS NULL OR manufacturing_cost IS NULL OR manufacturing_cost = 0;
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM fact_post_invoice_deductions WHERE customer_code IS NULL OR customer_code = 0 OR product_code IS NULL OR date IS NULL OR discounts_pct IS NULL OR other_deductions_pct IS NULL;
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM fact_pre_invoice_deductions WHERE customer_code IS NULL OR customer_code = 0 OR fiscal_year IS NULL OR pre_invoice_discount_pct IS NULL;
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM fact_sales_monthly WHERE date IS NULL OR product_code IS NULL OR customer_code IS NULL OR customer_code = 0 OR sold_quantity IS NULL;
```

- **Step 6:** Inspected dimension tables - dim_customer & dim_product tables for duplicate values based on Unique Primary Key. No duplicates were found.
```sql
SELECT customer_code, COUNT(customer_code) as duplicate_count
FROM dim_customer
GROUP BY customer_code
HAVING COUNT(customer_code) > 1 ;

SELECT product_code, COUNT(product_code) as duplicate_count
FROM dim_product
GROUP BY product_code
HAVING COUNT(product_code) > 1 ;
```

- **Step 7:** Trimmed the String datatype categorical columns to remove any existing visible/invisible white, leading and trailing spaces.
```sql
UPDATE dim_customer SET platform = TRIM(platform);
UPDATE dim_customer SET channel = TRIM(channel);
UPDATE dim_customer SET market = TRIM(market);
UPDATE dim_customer SET sub_zone = TRIM(sub_zone);
UPDATE dim_customer SET region = TRIM(region);

UPDATE dim_product SET division = TRIM(division);
UPDATE dim_product SET segment = TRIM(segment);
UPDATE dim_product SET category = TRIM(category);
UPDATE dim_product SET variant = TRIM(variant);
```

---

## 3. Database Design
...To be added...

---

## 4. Calculate Fiscal Year & Fiscal Quarter using Functions
### Fiscal Year:

The Fiscal Year cycle for AtliQ Hardware spans from September through August. I only have calendar date data in all of my columns, so I’ll need to calculate the FY. In this case I’ll have to add 4 months to the Calendar Date and the Year part of the new date will tell me the Fiscal year. E.g. Sep 2021 + 4 months = Jan 2022 → FY 22. I’ll use the DATE_ADD function for this use case.

Logic: Add 4 Months and extract Year component → SQL Code: `FY = YEAR(DATE_ADD(date, INTERVAL 4 MONTH))`

Now instead of repeating this code everywhere and making my queries unnecessarily longer, I can setup a custom User-defined SQL function to automate this calculation.

DB gdb0041 → Functions → Create Function:

```sql
CREATE FUNCTION `get_fiscal_year` (
	calendar_date DATE
)
RETURNS INTEGER
DETERMINISTIC
BEGIN
	DECLARE fiscal_year INT;
	SET fiscal_year = YEAR(DATE_ADD(calendar_date, INTERVAL 4 MONTH));
RETURN fiscal_year;
END
```

### Fiscal Quarter:

The Fiscal Quarter depends on the months. For AtliQ Fiscal Year spans from September through August, Quarter 1 will be September, October & November. Quarter 2 will be December, January & February. Quarter 3 will be March, April & May. Quarter 4 will be June, July & August.

Logic: If Month number: 9, 10 , 11 then Q1; 12, 1, 2 then Q2; 3, 4, 5 then Q3; 6, 7, 8 then Q4. → SQL Function used: `MONTH(date)`

DB gdb0041 → Functions → Create Function:

```sql
CREATE FUNCTION `get_fiscal_quarter`(
	calendar_date DATE
) RETURNS char(2) CHARSET utf8mb4
    DETERMINISTIC
BEGIN
	DECLARE m TINYINT;
    DECLARE fiscal_quarter CHAR(2);
    SET m = MONTH(calendar_date);
    CASE
		WHEN m IN (9, 10, 11) THEN SET fiscal_quarter = "Q1";
        WHEN m IN (12, 1, 2) THEN SET fiscal_quarter = "Q2";
        WHEN m IN (3, 4, 5) THEN SET fiscal_quarter = "Q3";
        ELSE SET fiscal_quarter = "Q4"; -- WHEN m IN (6, 7, 8)
    END CASE;
RETURN fiscal_quarter;
END
```

---

## 5. Finance Analytics
Finance Analytics involves generating reports that provide key Sales & Finance data for specific use cases usually automated through Stored Procedures.

### 5.1 Gross Sales Report: Croma FY 2021 Monthly Product Transactions
Task: Generate report of individual Product Sales (aggregated on a monthly basis at product code level) for Croma in India FY 2021.

```sql
-- Gross Sales Report: Croma FY 2021 Monthly Product Transactions
-- Generate report of individual product sales (aggregated on a monthly basis at product code level) for Croma in India FY 2021.
-- Display Fields: Month, Product Name, Variant, Sold Quantity, Gross Price per Item, Gross Price Total

SELECT fsm.date AS month, fsm.product_code, dp.product, dp.variant, fsm.sold_quantity, ROUND(fgp.gross_price, 2) AS gross_price, ROUND((fsm.sold_quantity * fgp.gross_price), 2) AS gross_sales
FROM fact_sales_monthly AS fsm
JOIN dim_product AS dp ON fsm.product_code = dp.product_code
JOIN fact_gross_price AS fgp ON fsm.product_code = fgp.product_code AND get_fiscal_year(fsm.date) = fgp.fiscal_year
WHERE customer_code = 90002002 AND get_fiscal_year(date) = 2021 -- Customer = Croma, FY =2021
ORDER BY month ASC;
```

### 5.2 Gross Sales Report: Croma Monthly Gross Sales
Task: Generate report of Monthly total Gross Sales amount for Croma India customer.

```sql
-- Gross Sales Report: Croma Monthly Gross Sales
-- Generate report of monthly total gross sales amount for Croma India customer.
-- Display Fields: Month, Total Gross Sales for Croma India

SELECT fsm.date AS month, ROUND(SUM(fsm.sold_quantity * fgp.gross_price), 2) AS monthly_gross_sales
FROM fact_sales_monthly AS fsm
JOIN fact_gross_price AS fgp ON fsm.product_code = fgp.product_code AND get_fiscal_year(fsm.date) = fgp.fiscal_year
WHERE customer_code = 90002002 -- customer = Croma
GROUP BY month
ORDER BY month ASC;
```

### 5.3 Gross Sales Report: Croma Yearly Gross Sales
Task: Generate report of Yearly total Gross Sales amount for Croma India customer.

```sql
-- Gross Sales Report: Croma Yearly Gross Sales
-- Generate report of yearly total gross sales amount for Croma India customer.
-- Display Fields: Fiscal Year, Total Gross Sales for Croma India

SELECT get_fiscal_year(fsm.date) as fiscal_year, ROUND(SUM(fsm.sold_quantity * fgp.gross_price), 2) AS yearly_gross_sales
FROM fact_sales_monthly AS fsm
JOIN fact_gross_price AS fgp ON fsm.product_code = fgp.product_code AND get_fiscal_year(fsm.date) = fgp.fiscal_year
WHERE customer_code = 90002002 -- customer = Croma
GROUP BY get_fiscal_year(fsm.date)
ORDER BY fiscal_year ASC;
```

### 5.4 Stored Procedure: Monthly Gross Sales Report
Task: Generate Monthly Gross Sales Report for any Customer using Stored Procedure.

```sql
-- in_customer_codes is the comma separated input for which the Monthly Gross Sales Report will be generated.

CREATE DEFINER=`root`@`localhost` PROCEDURE `get_monthly_gross_sales_for_customer`(
	in_customer_codes TEXT
)
BEGIN
	SELECT fsm.date AS month, ROUND(SUM(fsm.sold_quantity * fgp.gross_price), 2) AS monthly_gross_sales
	FROM fact_sales_monthly AS fsm
	JOIN fact_gross_price AS fgp ON fsm.product_code = fgp.product_code AND get_fiscal_year(fsm.date) = fgp.fiscal_year
	WHERE FIND_IN_SET(fsm.customer_code, in_customer_codes) > 0
	GROUP BY month;
END
```

### 5.5 Stored Procedure: Market Badge
Not all markets are equally valuable to AliQ. The significance of a market for AtliQ depends on the quantity sold. Identify the high significance markets by assigning a status parameter.

Task: Write a Stored Procedure that can retrieve Market Badge. If total sold quantity > 5 million that market is considered "Gold" else "Silver”.

```sql
-- My Simpler & Less Optimized Code:

CREATE DEFINER=`root`@`localhost` PROCEDURE `market_badge`(
	in_market VARCHAR(45),
	in_fiscal_year YEAR
)
BEGIN
	# Default market set to India
	IF in_market = "" THEN
		SET in_market="India";
	END IF;

	SELECT in_market, in_fiscal_year, SUM(fsm.sold_quantity) AS total_sold_quantity, IF(SUM(fsm.sold_quantity) > 5000000, "Gold", "Silver") AS market_badge
	FROM fact_sales_monthly AS fsm
	JOIN dim_customer AS dc ON fsm.customer_code = dc.customer_code
    WHERE get_fiscal_year(fsm.date) = in_fiscal_year AND dc.market = in_market;
END
```

```sql
-- Codebasics Complex & More Optimized Code:

CREATE DEFINER=`root`@`localhost` PROCEDURE `get_market_badge`(
	IN in_market VARCHAR(45),
	IN in_fiscal_year YEAR,
	OUT out_market_badge VARCHAR(45)
)
BEGIN
	DECLARE qty INT DEFAULT 0;
    
	# Default market set to India
	IF in_market = "" THEN
		SET in_market="India";
	END IF;
    
	SELECT SUM(fsm.sold_quantity) INTO qty 
  	FROM fact_sales_monthly AS fsm
	JOIN dim_customer AS dc ON fsm.customer_code = dc.customer_code
	WHERE GET_FISCAL_YEAR(fsm.date) = in_fiscal_year AND dc.market = in_market;
	
	# Determine Gold or Silver badge
	IF qty > 5000000 THEN SET out_market_badge = 'Gold';
	ELSE SET out_market_badge = 'Silver';
	END IF;
END
```

---

## 6. Query Optimization

### 6.1 Creating dim_date table:

- Implementing the Fiscal Year Function in queries is slowing down the query execution time since the function is repeatedly called for all date values. An optimized better way would be to just create a dim_date table with fiscal_year field as a generated column using the same logic used in the get_fiscal_year function code.
- Process: gdb0041 → Right click Tables → Create table → Name: dim_date → Add columns: 1. calendar_date (DATE) - Primary Key & Not Null Constraint, 2. fiscal_year (YEAR) - Generative Constraint with Expression: `YEAR(DATE_ADD(calendar_date, INTERVAL 4 MONTH))`
- To enter data in the date table I checked the fact_sales_monthly table for the first and last date to get a range of date data. First date - 2017-09-01 , Last date - 2021-12-01, 76 Dates. Create an Excel file with 2 columns - date and fiscal_year and insert the date range values in the date column using auto-generation, leave fiscal_year column blank as it’ll be auto-filled when I import the data to out dim_date table through the generative column expression. Save as a CSV seed file: [date-seed.csv](https://prod-files-secure.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/f170f411-4e97-4d88-bdda-1bda2f733ead/287bdf7b-753d-4462-842f-245faec4508a/date-seed.csv)
- Import data to dim_date table (except fiscal_year column) using the Import records from an external file option in the result grid section by specifying the file directory. 76 records will be imported and fiscal_year column will be calculated.
- The main advantage this provides is that now instead of using the get_fiscal_year function with date each time I want to join the fact_sales_monthly table with any other tables with fiscal_year column, I can first join it with dim_date table using the date field and then I can use the fiscal_year from the dim_date column instead of the function for joins and other use cases.

### 6.2 Modifying fact_sales_monthly table to include fiscal_year:

- Usually medium and large scale companies have paid storage solutions that can easily handle larger file sizes and are hence more inclined towards faster performance than low file size. So for such use case it would be a better alternative to add the fiscal_year column in the fact_sales_monthly table itself which would improve query performance at the cost of file size.
- I’ll just add the same fiscal_year (YEAR) column with Generative Constraint with Expression: `YEAR(DATE_ADD(calendar_date, INTERVAL 4 MONTH))` to the fact_sales_monthly table after the date column.

---
